CXP-619 add messenger bundle documentation (#13836)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: src/Akeneo/Tool/Bundle/MessengerBundle/README.md

# Akeneo Messenger Bundle

> This bundle provide the missing pieces to integrate [Symfony Messenger](https://symfony.com/doc/4.4/messenger.html) with the PIM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bundle provides the missing pieces to integrate [Symfony Messenger](https://symfony.com/doc/4.4/messenger.html) with the PIM.
```

## Messenger Transport for Google Pub/Sub

> The Transport require the library ["google/cloud-pubsub"](https://packagist.org/packages/google/cloud-pubsub).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Transport requires the library ["google/cloud-pubsub"](https://packagist.org/packages/google/cloud-pubsub).
```

It follows the official Symfony documentation on [creating a custom Transport](https://symfony.com/doc/4.4/messenger/custom-transport.html).

The environment variable `SRNT_GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` must be defined with the file path of the JSON file that contains your [service account key](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started#setting_the_environment_variable).

### Simple queue configuration

> For a simple configuration of a Pub/Sub Topic with only one Subscription:

Reviewer: 'Topic' or 'topic' ? 'Subscription' or 'subscription' ? Did you intentionally keep the upper case ?

Author: Yes, it was intentional; as it's the naming from Pub/Sub. But it might not be necessary, if you think it's not much use I can change that (I trust more you english than mine :smile: )

Reviewer: If it's like this in Pub/Sub documentation, keep it !

Author: Changed it ;)

```yml
framework:
  messenger:
    transports:
      my_queue:
        dsn: 'gps:'
        options:
          project_id: '%env(GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT)%'
          topic_name: '%env(PUBSUB_TOPIC)%'
          subscription_name: '%env(PUBSUB_SUBSCRIPTION)%'
        retry_strategy:
          max_retries: 0

>         serializer: pim_enrich.messenger.serializer.business_event

Reviewer 2: This serializer does not belong to this `MessengerBundle` doc.

    routing:
      'My\Event': my_queue
```

### Queue with multiple subscribers

Google Pub/Sub use a [subscription model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publish%E2%80%93subscribe_pattern) and it means that one Topic can have more than one Subscription.

> To be able to handle this, we recommends to have multiple transport definitions with one that serve as Producer only while the other ones are Consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to handle this, we recommend having multiple transport definitions with one that serves as Producer only while the other ones are Consumers.
```

> To be able to handle this, we recommend having multiple transport definitions with one that serves as Producer only while the other ones are Consumers.

Reviewer 2: What is the interest of having separate queues ?
Like, is there a real benefit ?

it's not because PubSub handle it that we should push this recommendation. I think that using `messenger` is to have an abstraction on top of the queue system.
Having "here how to split your queues if your underlying system is PubSub" is the wrong message to send, it's why our current config for the Events API is such different between prod/prod_flex/behat/dev ...

Author: I'm not sure I understand what you mean?
The bundle is providing a Transport for Pub/Sub, and the only way to use Pub/Sub with messenger when you want to consume multiple Pub/Sub subscriptions is to define a Transport for each one.

```yml
framework:
  messenger:
    transports:
      # Producer

      my_producer:
        dsn: 'gps:'
        options:
          project_id: '%env(GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT)%'
          topic_name: '%env(PUBSUB_TOPIC)%'
        retry_strategy:
          max_retries: 0
        serializer: pim_enrich.messenger.serializer.business_event

      # Consumers

      my_first_consumer:
        dsn: 'gps:'
        options:
          project_id: '%env(GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT)%'
          topic_name: '%env(PUBSUB_TOPIC)%'
          subscription_name: '%env(PUBSUB_SUBSCRIPTION_1)%'
        retry_strategy:
          max_retries: 0
        serializer: pim_enrich.messenger.serializer.business_event

      my_second_consumer:
        dsn: 'gps:'
        options:
          project_id: '%env(GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT)%'
          topic_name: '%env(PUBSUB_TOPIC)%'
          subscription_name: '%env(PUBSUB_SUBSCRIPTION_2)%'
        retry_strategy:
          max_retries: 0
        serializer: pim_enrich.messenger.serializer.business_event

    routing:
      'My\Event': my_producer
```

> From the Symfony Messenger point of view, this is three independant queues. But from Pub/Sub point of view, all messages sent to the producer will be dispatched to the consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Symfony Messenger point of view, this is three independent queues. But from Pub/Sub point of view, all messages sent to the producer will be dispatched to the consumers.
```

### Transport Options

- `topic_name: string`

- `subscription_name: ?string`

  Optional, but if the option is not defined you won't be able to receive messages from this Transport.

- `auto_setup: ?bool`

  Default to `false`, but can be enabled to make the Transport create the Topic and Subscription for you.
  This is useful when using the in-memory [Pub/Sub emulator](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/emulator) (enabled when the environment variable `PUBSUB_EMULATOR_HOST` is defined).

## Purge Command for the Doctrine Transport table

> Define a Command to purge the table defined by the Doctrine Transport.

Reviewer: Twice the word "define". Rephrase or replace 'define' by one of its synonyms.

Author: ```suggestion
Define a Command to purge the table configured on the Doctrine Transport.
```
What do you think of that instead ?

```sh

> bin/console akeneo:messenger:doctrine:purge-messages --retention-time=7200 <table-name> <queue-name>

Reviewer: By default, retention-time= 7200. Do we need to add it here ?

Author: ```suggestion
bin/console akeneo:messenger:doctrine:purge-messages <table-name> <queue-name>
```

```

> The goal is to remove old messages (the default retention time is 2 hours).

Reviewer 2: `(the default retention time is 2 hours).`
You are documenting the MessengerBundle. This bundle does not have a default retention, having one for our SaaS configuration is unrelated.

Author: It's the default value defined on the `PurgeMessengerCommand` option `--retention-time`. And the command is defined in the bundle.

Reviewer 2: Got it. Maybe we can be more precise, something like "the default retention time used by the command is 2 hours" and maybe add this option to the current documentation ?

> The goal is to be able to remove Messages that are too old (default to 2 hours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to remove old messages (default retention time is 2 hours).
```
